After the Muslim Ban Executive Order was signed by Trump, Mr. Eiso Kant and I had a conversation on the state of research in Iran and it's problems. Mr. Eiso Kant is the CEO and co-founder of source{d}. This company's goal is to build an AI that can understand code. It is an interesting goal and I think it can be quite useful, at least for people who code. Although their goal is beyond just this. To achieve this, they need to deeply understand code. Therefore they have gathered and analyzed all source code on Github and Bitbucket. So if you had public code on either of these sites, your code has been a gathered and analyzed by this company. This company has large number of interesting open-source projects on Github, among which a git implementation in Go and an implementation of K-means clustering algorithm on GPU are the most interesting IMO.

Anyways, after this conversation on research, they suggested that they are interested in collaborating with people from Iran that are currently doing research or are interested in serious research. To introduce the company and its mission and requirements and details of this collaboration, they have prepared a presentation that you can see using this link.

I think these kinds of collaborations can be quite beneficial and bring about a great learning experience. So if you think you have the requirements and you are serious about research in these topics (or if you have not yet finalized your thesis topic), I highly recommend that you contact them. If you had any other questions, you can also contact me.